---
description: Section 4 of the course
---

# 4. Intermediate HTML

## HTML Tables

* `<table>` tag
* `<tr>` represents a **table row**
* `<td>` represents an **element in the row**
* To have borders for the table, we could implement this by CSS. But in the old-fashioned HTML way, set the _**border**_ attribute of the table element to `"1"`.
  * Example: `<table border="1">`
* To make the **code** more viewable \(the appearance in the browser is exactly the same\), we could put the heading row in a `<thead>` element and put the content rows in a `<tbody>` element.

## HTML Forms

* `<form>` tag
  * Most forms in HTML document include
    * Some blanks to fill in
    * A button to submit the data that is filled in the blanks
  * `<form action="blah" method="blah">`
    * **action** - the URL to send form data to
    * **method** - the type of HTTP request
  * Until we cover JavaScript, our forms currently do nothing.
* `<input>` tag
  * `<input type="text">`
  * A blank representing input field
  * Different built-in input types \(30-40 of them\)
  * `placeholder` is an attribute that represents the placeholder of an input field
* `<button>` tag
  * A clickable button

## Labels

* To connect a label to an input field, use `for` and `id` attributes. 
* Example
  * `<label for="password">`
  * `<input id="password">`
  * This label element matches with this input element

## Form Validations

* The `required` attribute validates that an input is not empty.
* The `type="someType"` attribute validates that an input matches the correct type that is wanted.
* Example
  * `<input id="email type="email" placeholder="email" required>`
  * This is an input field that needs a valid email address and is required.

## Dropdown Menus and Radio Buttons

* `<input type="radio">` 
  * A circle checkbox in Chrome
  * Can't be de-selected
  * Used in the case where only one choice can be selected among multiple choices \(e.g. gender, age, etc.\)
  * By giving several radio buttons the same `name` attribute, only one of them could be selected.
    * `<input name="petChoice" id="dogs" type="radio" value="DOGS">`
    * `<input name="petChoice" id="cats" type="radio" value="CATS">`
    * In this case, only one of `id="dogs"` and `id="cats"` can be selected.
* `<input type="checkbox">` 
  * A square checkbox in Chrome
  * Can be de-selected
  * Used in the case where multiple choices can be selected among multiple choices \(e.g. skills, preferences. etc.\)
* If a `<button>` element is the last element in a `<table>` element, then clicking the button automatically submits the form.
* `<select name="someName">`
  * Provides a dropdown menu
  * `<option value="someValue">` defines an option with `value` "someValue" in the `select` menu
* `<textarea rows="someRows" cols="someCols">`
  * Is a relatively larger text area whose size can be pre-defined by the programmer

## Extra information

* If we want that the user must select one choice among several radio buttons, give the buttons the same name and set one of the buttons to be `required`.
  * `<input name="gender" id="male" value="male" type="radio" required>`
  * `<input name="gender" id="female" value="female" type="radio">`
  * `<input name="gender" id="other" value="other" type="radio">`
* We could use the `pattern` attribute of `<input>` to make further validation on the input field by regular expression.
* If we have a default value \(placeholder\) for a dropdown menu and we want the user to select a valid choice, set `value=""` for the default choice and set the `<select>` element to be `required`.

